Followed the 6 step methodologyu of CRISP Data Mining process:

1) Business Understanding
Claims costs XPO Logistics $10 Million+ every year. 
The project was divided into 3 different sub parts:
-- Prediction of closed Claim Value: How much the business should keep aside for thier claims on a monthly basis?
-- NMFC Class Analysis: Which NMFC class shipments are leading to losses. Usually customers pay extra charge for excess liability 
coverage and n case of damage claim back amounts
-- Throughput calculations: Analysing the number of claims closed, $ amount closed and the average age to close for different segments 
of Claim amounts weekly basis

The main aim is to prevent any new claim going into that bucket and resolve/settle them as soon as possible.
Claims are caused when a damage occurs due to a fault of XPO Logistics and the customer wants their money back.

2) Data understanding:
CLaims are categorized into 5 buckets: 0-30, 30-60, 60-90, 90-120, 120+ days.
If the claim goes into the final bucket of 120+ dyas, they have to be written as deductible in the balance sheet of the company.
There were 16 diffrent attributes and metrics in the data. A primary key - claim ID, few dates, few $ amounts 

3) Data Preparation
10 derived metrics werer created using R and Excel.This would help to predict the closed Claim value and for the throughput anlaysis
the age of the claims were derived on a bucket basis in R
The closing week #, Filing week # were derived in excel

Mean Claim age for each of the buckets and Percentage pay out were calculated for each of the claims, by dividing htem into 0-500, 
500-1000, 1000-1500, 1500-2000, 2000-2500 etc. 

Anamoly detection:
Few of the claims which were open more than 365 days were removed, since those were not appropriate as per business logic and 
discussions

Missing value treatment:
for the Claim type, Reason code it was imputed with the mode
For the Claim amount, median was imputed

4) Modelling:

Developed multiple models to achieve an operations scenario tool-
-- Goal of 5K claims within 3 months
-- Goal of 0 120+ days claims within 3 months
-- 20% faster claims closure rate
-- FIFO model
-- LIFO model
-- FILO model
-- LILO model

5) Evaluation

The models were evaluated with the support of the business. For the 20% faster claims closure rate model, we tried different scenarios
of changing the fastness rate as per the budget allocation flexibility.
The best model was selected which saved the most amount for the business, thus reducing the 120+ days claims or even completly making 
it 0.

6) Deployment:

The sql and the R codes were given to the offshore team for the daily run and analysis as suggested by me.
A Daily automated report was being generated which used to go to the end users in the Back office team in different regions

Next Steps:

Build the regression models for Prediction of Closed Claim amounts
Build the classification models for the NMFC class predictions of most successtibility for damage

